in this lecture,
we're going to be adding a test runner so that in the following lectures we can add both
unit tests and integration tests to our app In order to add a test runner.
We're going to invoke nodes built in Assertion Library,
but we're going to have to write the logic for invoking the tests and running through the
test ourselves.
Before we do that,
it will be worth creating a very simple function that we can test.
So within the helpers library,
I'm just to create a new function called Get a Number.
So this is going to be a sample for testing that simply returns a number so helpers don't
get a number.
Going to be a function and I was going to do is return the number one.
Now we can create a test runner and some sample unit tests that assert that get a number
should return a number,
and it should return the number one.
Let's create a directory in our route called Test.
Now,
with in test,
we're going to create a single file called test slash index dot Js.
Since it's the index file within the test directory to invoke it.
All we have to call is node test,
but we don't need to do that quite yet.
Let's go inside of this index dot Js and start setting up this test runner.
We're going to say at the top that this is the test runner and it is going to have a few
dependencies.
We know that we're gonna need the helpers file because that includes the function.
Get a number that we're going to need a test so helpers equals require.
And to get there,
we need to go dot slash that slash live helpers.
That is because we need to back out of this test directory and then into the live directory
and then into helpers.
The next dependency that we need is the Assertion Library that I mentioned so far.
Assert is going to eagle require a search.
And as you'll see this assertion,
library allows us to write very simple syntax that asserts that one thing should equal
something else.
And if it doesn't equal that it will create a assertion error.
Now we need to create the application logic for the test runner and then a container for
the test.
So the logic holder is just going to be underscore app,
and that's an object.
The container for the test,
however,
is going to be asked dot tests and then within here we could have asthma knee sub keys,
as we want for now that sticks create one sub key called Unit and will place all of our
unit tests as sub keys on this unit.
Object.
Now,
even though we haven't read a test runner,
let's go ahead and write a few tests first so that we have something that will need to be
Ram.
Let's assert that the get a number function is returning number.
The way that we're going to structure these unit tests is creating them as keys on this
unit object with a name that is human,
readable,
and then though each be a function that needs to be invoked.
So we are going to say app,
Tess unit and then we're going to name this test that helpers to get a number should return
.
One is going to be a function that takes a call back,
and we're gonna call this callback done.
Now that is just a convention that many tests runners have used in the past and it tends to
be a easy way to conceptualize what's going on there.
When the test is done running,
you need to call done.
So we're going to say that this value of helpers get a number,
should equal one for that.
We're gonna call the Assertion Library.
So we're going to say,
Assert,
we want to assert That's two things are equal.
So assert dot equal.
We want to assert that vow.
This returning value from get a number is equal to one.
So we put Vow and one separated by a comma.
That's all we need to assert,
and we're done asserting it So now we can call Done,
which in fact,
is just a call back as any other.
But it's calling done to make this clearer.
Now let's copy this.
Actually,
let's make this comment a little clear down here.
We should say that Get a number.
Function is returning.
One been up here will write a different one that it's returning a number to return a number
,
and we'll get the value as we did before.
But now we're going to assert that type of thou is equal to number.
So first we're asserting that it is a type of number,
and now we're asserting that its one both of these tests should pass.
Now let's assert something that isn't true.
That's assert that get a number function is returning the number two.
We know that these two things are contradictory,
so one of them was obviously going to fail or both.
Let's assert that value equals two and then call done now at the very bottom of our file.
Let's say that rather than exporting this module,
we want to run the test.
So we're going to call underscore app dot run tests now.
App.
That run test doesn't exist.
So now let's write this function that is going to figure out a way to call all of these
tests and give us an outcome or report on the outcome.
Let's call underscored Ron tests.
He goes a function.
We're gonna have a comment here that this is to run all the tests collecting the heirs and
successes from those tests.
The goal of this function is to run all of the tests and then be able to tell us at the end
three of these fail two of them succeeded and print out a report.
So first that's creating Empty Array to hold all the errors that might occur.
And now let's create zero counter,
and that is to count the successes that have occurred.
We need to know when to stop running the tests.
And so we're going to say that the limit is,
uh,
count tests.
Now that isn't a function that exists yet,
and so we'll need to write that next.
But let's continue on for this for now.
This counter of how many tests we've done so far is,
of course,
going to be zero.
And now we're going to cycle through the tests in AP tests.
So let's call the four loop for four key in at Tess we to cycle through all the sub keys
and then all the tests within those sub keys.
Right now,
there's only one sub key That's unit.
But in the future,
there could be many.
We want to say that if AP tests has owned property key will continue looping.
We want to say that far sub tests equals yeah,
tests at the current key.
Now that we have those some tests,
we can look through them.
So for of our test name in sub tests.
Let's loop through.
So if sub tests has owned property key test name,
we can continue.
And within here we're actually going to write a closure.
So we're going to say that this is a self executing function that called itself a the end.
And the purpose of this is just to encapsulate all of these tests specific variables that
were about to define without these nested loops overriding each other's variables.
So once we reach actually testing each test,
we are going to wrap it in a closure.
Were going to say that bar temporary test name equals test name and then var test value
equals sub tests.
Test name.
So at this point,
test value equals the value of these functions,
and test name equals the name that we gave to the test.
Now we need to call the test,
and for that we're going to wrap it in a try catch because thes assertion,
errors,
if they occur,
will likely throw.
So we need to catch those throws when you want to say,
if it throws.
Then it failed,
so captured the air thrown and log it in red,
and we'll do that in a second.
But within the try,
we want to call test value,
which remember,
contains this function now because we defined it there.
So we're going to call the function test value and we're going to pass it this call back,
which will get invoked with done.
And so we want to say if it calls back without throwing,
then it succeeded because there's no way would have made it to done if it would have had an
assertion fail.
So if it calls back without throwing,
then it succeeded.
So log it in green.
So now we have two different outcomes.
We have an assertion failing or an assertion passing.
Let's fill out what should happen if the assertion passes.
First,
let's go back to our workers file and copy this console log that we did in yellow because
we're gonna need to color this success in green.
So we're going to log out the name of the test,
which would be a value such as this,
and we're going to log it in green.
So for this we want to change 33 to 32.
Now we've logged out that it passed.
We need to count its success.
So we're gonna increment the counter.
We're going to increment the success counter.
So successes plus plus,
then we're going to say if the counter is equal to the limit,
we're done.
So we need to call app dot produce test report,
and we're going to send all this data we've been collecting to the producer of this chest
report.
We're going to send it the limit.
We're gonna send it the number of successes,
and we're going to send it the array of errors now obviously produced test report is
another function that doesn't exist yet.
And so,
just like count tests,
we're going to have to write that after this one.
Now that's handle what should happen if an assertion error fails.
So let's say we need to push this error onto this errors array,
so we want to call errors dot push and the thing that we're going to be pushing onto it is
actually an object and that objects going to have two keys and name,
which is the test name and in error,
which is the value of E,
which is the air that we caught now we want to do something similar to what we did above.
We want to log out the test name,
but we want to do it in red.
So we're gonna change 32.
We're gonna increment the counter.
We're not going to increment the successes because this wasn't a success.
And then we're going to have the same F clause.
If the counter now that is incremental equals the limit,
go ahead and produce the test report with the value of limits,
successes and the errors array.
Now,
obviously,
we need to write these helper functions or none of this is going to work.
So let's do the easy one first.
That's right.
Be count tests function.
This is going to be to count.
Oh,
the Tess.
So we're gonna call it at dot count tests,
and that is a function it doesn't take anything in.
And it's just going to need to started counter.
And then look through all of the tests that might be on this unit object or any other sub
key and count them up so that we know how many total test there are.
So for Barkey in act Tess,
we want to check that Israel so If Tess has owned property key,
it looks like I just have a little type of here.
So it's not hash on property.
It's hazard property from the update.
These If AP Test has own property key,
then we'll continue again.
We're saying that sub tests equals Tess Key,
and then we're going to look to the sub test once again for far test name in sub tests.
If sub tests has own property test name,
then we'll increment the counter.
Lastly,
when all these loops air done,
we want to return the captor.
The last thing we have to do is write the function that will produce the test report.
After this runner completes,
we're going to say that that is the function to produce a test outcome report,
and that is at produced test report.
And as we saw,
it is a function that takes in limit successes,
which is a counter and an array of errors.
First thing is going to want to do is just create a header,
much like we did when we were creating the stats in the command mind lectures.
But we don't need to do anything that complicated here.
That's just log out an empty line.
I've been a bunch of dashes and say,
Begin test report a bunch more dashes And we want to say that the total test that we ran,
we're going to equal limit.
Then we want to say that the number that have passed so pass is going to equal successes
and then fails is going to ICO errors dot length because remember,
it's an array of air objects that we can log out another empty line.
As with most test runners,
we don't just want to list out the errors or have the test names in red,
but at the very bottom below this report.
We want to list out the air details in detail.
If there are heirs,
print them in detail,
who have to say that if heiress dot length is greater than zero,
then will continue regardless of if it's greater than zero.
At the very end,
we want to indicate that we've reached the end of the chest report,
so we want to console log and empty line and then console log and test report.
But within here we want to law that we were beginning and ending the printing of error
details begin air details and then at the end and their details now in the middle,
we need to look through the air details and log each one out,
going to start with an empty line,
and we actually put an empty line before the end.
In between here,
we want to say prayers for each.
You're gonna pass us an object called test air.
We want to log out the test Ares name and then the actual exception.
And then an empty line might as well make it read as we did the other ones.
So when we log out the air name,
we're going to say,
Call it test air.
Got name now logging out.
The whole exception object in red would be a little hard for people to look at.
And so let's just log out the exception object in plain,
so test their dot there and then a blank line.
Okay,
so that is a test report,
including all the details of any areas that may occur.
So to invoke these tests,
all we need to do is call note test because remember,
that is going to invoke the index file within the test directory.
So we call it no test.
We run the tests and you see a pretty nice report.
We see two green lines for helpers.
Get a number.
Should return a number that turned out green.
Should return one that turned out green.
But then get her number should return to turned out red.
So when we look at our test report,
we can see we had three tests to over them past and one of them failed.
Then if we want more details about the one that's failed,
we know it's gonna be this red one here and we can look down and see OK for helpers,
get a number should return to this was the air we asserted that one equals two because the
return value of get a number was one.
But we asserted that it should equal to all the rest of this is just the stack trace
telling us how they arrived at this conclusion.
But all we really need to know is we expected this to equal to,
and it actually equaled one.
That's the end of the era details and the end of the test report.
So that's all the scaffolding that we need in place to be able to run these unit tests,
and the next lectures will add on more unit tests so that we can start bulletproofing this
application at least nominally and then in the lecture.
After that,
will adults of integration tests as well so we can move on to the next lecture?